Well we're pretty much done with our Lego guy here.
Let's do a few more housekeeping chores and then maybe we can render an image out over here in the outliner.
I've got quite a few objects that are named Kube cylinder etc. and we really need to take care of these
and clean it up so we know what our objects are.
This is really important if you're working with other people in a production pipeline.
No one likes to get a scene.
Open it up and see things named like cylinder 0 0 2.
It's just hard to work with.
So let's be kind to ourselves and our fellow coworkers select the head and rename it head.
Let's do this.
This looks like torso.
This is arm l arm right.
That looks fine.
How about this.
This looks like this could be called hips I guess we can call this just crotch.
How about that.
This one we can call leg underscore.
Well and this one we can call leg underscore our.
All right.
That looks like we've got those pieces all named me scroll through here and make sure we haven't missed
anything.
There are a couple of objects that have this 0 0 1 on it.
Those are just the ones that we copied to make a stack of blocks.
But speaking of our blocks we should probably bring those back and take a look at the difference in
scale.
I'm going to press the shift key and select these other layers here and we can see that that's a little
out of proportion.
We can go ahead and select these objects here.
And if we press the key and scale them down we can scale it down to a more reasonable size.
This looks to be a little bit better.
Let me ask you know down a tad more.
Something like this maybe now we can do this because our pivot center is at the median point in other
words the center of our selection.
We can change this to individual origins 3D cursor.
But for now the median point seems to be working pretty well for us.
So I'm going to bring this down and kind of place it.
I don't know.
Somewhere around in here.
And if we're going to have a little scene here we should probably have a floor.
So I will click on the Create tab and create a polygon plane and I'll just scale this out so it's a
little bit bigger.
Something like this.
And let's go ahead and create a camera and a light and see if we can render this scene out and see how
it looks.
So what I'll do is I'll come down here in the create tab and create a camera right here.
And there it is it's kind of hard to see if we move it out here we can see it.
I'll go ahead and create a new window so we can see what the camera sees.
I'll just click this little tab right here and drag down.
And now to switch to the camera.
I'll just press the zero key on the number pad and that will then frame it up.
So we're seeing through the camera now I can use my manipulator tools to move the camera around and
frame up the scene so maybe I'll move it over here like this and move that back kind of like this.
How about this.
Yeah let's do that.
Now if we switch to our rendered viewport shading right here you can see that we can't really see much.
We need to add a light into the scene so let's once again add a polygon plane.
Scroll up here.
I'll create a plain and let's move it up and baby to one side.
I'm going to move it to one side of the camera maybe to the right side of the camera here and click
the rotate manipulator rotate that into place and scale it up.
So that will be our light.
Now you may be able to hear my computer fan begin to kick in.
My apologies but it's just trying to keep up with the rendered image up here.
OK so now let's add a material to this polygon plane to turn it into a light and move this up and move
this up over here so we can see our properties panel and I'll switch to the material window and click
new with this selected of course and let me change the name to light and I'll change the type of surface
or material from a diffuse or color to any mission.
And now we're beginning to see a little bit of light in here.
I can take the strength up maybe take it up to five Let's see how that works.
Yeah we're beginning to see something here.
Let's take it up to 10 and see what happens.
Maybe a little too much.
Well that's not bad.
Let's go with that.
Now we also have under the world settings here we also have an ambient occlusion setting.
We can turn this on.
It'll it'll make things very bright but we can take the slider here and bring it down.
And what this will do is this will kind of emphasize contacts shadows between the pieces.
You can see what happens if we turn it off and turn it on here.
So it just adds a little bit extra to the scene.
So there we have a light in the scene now.
There are a couple of problems I can see right up front here.
First of all these pieces are hovering above the ground just a bit.
Let me select these and move those down just a hair.
Like that.
Let's say.
And also we don't have any colors for our character here.
We need to add some materials to him so I'll select the head and come over here.
And this is going to be a yellow.
And it doesn't look like we have a yellow yet here so I click new for a new material call this yellow
and click on the color swatch.
And change it to yellow.
All right.
So we have that let's do the same thing for the arms and the legs.
We can click the arm and add yellow do the same thing here.
And on the legs
OK so we have that looks like we need it on the hips as well.
And here we go.
Now we need a read on the torso.
We can choose that from the list.
There we go.
Now we can render this image out if we like we can go back to the render window.
And if I scroll down here I can see that under the sampling section the Render is the same as the preview.
So this right here is what we're seeing as the preview and it's got some grain in it and isn't quite
as good as what I'd like.
So for the Render I will take this up to maybe 100 instead of 10 and let's scroll back up.
And when I render this out I'd like it to render in a new window right here.
Now this is our render settings right down here.
Notice it's set for just half resolution as we render test or scene.
I'll just leave it there for now.
We can always increase that to bring it up to a full 19:20 by 10 80.
But now let's give this a try.
I'll just click the render button a window will open up and we can see our scene.
Now if we want to save the image out to show the world we can come down here to image save as image.
Give it a name and click save.
And there we go.
I finished 18.
Well thank you for joining me for this introduction to blender in 3D modeling.
We've come a long way since the beginning of the course we began with the fundamentals of Blender's
interface and navigation.
And then we talked about Blender's core editing tools like extrude and loop cut.
We discussed how to look for the primitive shapes in any object and how to build up complex models with
basic shapes.
We created round extrusions from a surface with square polygons and learn how to join objects apply
transformations and mirror objects along an axis.
These are core skills that you'll build upon as you continue learning blender.
So join me in the next course in our curriculum Blendr 111 materials and lighting as we talked more
about creating compelling renderers of our 3D scenes.
Thanks again and see you soon.